Solana pay [Reference] (#297)
solana-developers/solana-cookbook: docs/references/solana-pay.md

---
title: Solana Pay
head:
  - - meta
    - name: title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | Solana Pay Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Solana Pay
```

  - - meta
    - name: og:title

>       content: Solana Cookbook | Solana Pay Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      content: Solana Cookbook | Solana Pay
```

  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: Learn how to use Solana Pay
  - - meta
    - name: og:description

>       content: Learn how to write programs on Solana, with references on cross program invocation, reading accounts, and more

Reviewer: I don't think this `og:description` matches what is on the page.

  - - meta
    - name: og:image
      content: https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png
  - - meta
    - name: og:image:alt
      content: Solana splash card
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:card
      content: summary
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:site
      content: "@solanacookbook"
  - - meta
    - name: twitter:image
      content: "https://solanacookbook.com/cookbook-sharing-card.png"
  - - meta
    - name: robots
      content: index,follow,noodp
  - - meta
    - name: googlebot
      content: index,follow
---

# Solana Pay

> **@solana/pay** is a JavaScript library for facilitating commerce on Solana by using a token transfer URL scheme. The URL scheme ensures that no matter the wallet or service used, the payment request must be created and interpreted in one standard way.

Reviewer: Could we link the [scheme](https://docs.solanapay.com/spec) here?

## How to receive payments with Solana pay

To start getting payments using Solana pay you need to have a native SOL address. This address is going to be the merchant address which is going to get funded whenever a user pays using solana pay.

Let's Look into how you can integrate Solana Pay in your Application and start accepting SOL.

### Creating a SOL Payment request

> In this Code-snippet we are going to look into how create a payment request URL and encode it into a QR Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a SOL payment request, we first generate a QR code with a payment request URI.
```

<SolanaCodeGroup>
  <SolanaCodeGroupItem title="TS" active>

  <template v-slot:default>

@[code](@/code/solana-pay/sol-payment/sol-payment.en.ts)

  </template>

  <template v-slot:preview>

@[code](@/code/solana-pay/sol-payment/sol-payment.preview.en.ts)

  </template>

  </SolanaCodeGroupItem>

</SolanaCodeGroup>

### Creating a SPL Token payment request

> In this Code-snippet we are going to look into how create a payment request for a user who can transfer tokens of a specific mint accepted by the merchant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a payment request using a custom token other than Native SOL, you can specify the mint address in the payment request URL.
```
